Savannah Wu: Hello.
Thank you all for joining
today's session
on custom product pages.
First, let's introduce
ourselves.
I'm Savannah from the App Store
Games Business Management team
Michelle Van Regenmorter:
And I'm Michelle
with the App Store Connect
Operations team.
Together with my colleague
Savannah,
we're excited to share more
about custom product pages.
Savannah: Today,
I'll be giving you
a brief overview
of this feature.
Michelle will take you through
the feature setup
within App Store Connect.
And I'll introduce the
considerations and strategies
to help you make the most
out of this feature.
Let's get started
with the feature overview.
Your product page
is the home for your app.
It's where people learn
all about your app
before they decide
to download it,
and the destination for people
finding your app
via browse, search,
or referral.
Referral audience can be people
who land on your page
from any external links
such as social posts
or paid advertising.
We're excited to share
the custom product pages
as the first feature to
customize your store content
specific to your referral
audience.
Since this feature is designed
for referral traffic,
let's first take a look
at the current user journey.
People can come from
lots of referral sources,
including paid marketing
channels,
organic social posts,
email campaigns, and more.
These sources might have
different optimization levers
or intended audiences
based on things like interests
or customer status.
It's common practice
to show your audience
different acquisition assets
highlighting various
selling points of your app.
For example, you can see an ad
for the Mountain Climber app
on the social platforms.
Once the users click on the ads,
previously they all landed on
the same default product page.
Now with the custom
product pages,
you can create up to 35
variations of the product page
to highlight your app's
rich content
and engaging features
for different audiences.
For an app
like Mountain Climber,
you could create one page
to highlight
the live-streaming feature
for users interested in
following climbers in real time
and create another
custom product page
to highlight
the GPS tracking feature,
which might appeal
to people
interested in planning
a group climb with friends.
You have the flexibility
to customize the screenshots,
app preview videos,
and promotional text
in each of the custom page.
With the customized
product page,
you may have a more
streamlined user journey.
Taking the GPS tracking
as an example,
you can have the same audience,
or preferably
a tailored audience
that is interested in climbing
with a group of friends.
Your audience would see
the GPS tracking feature
in your ads.
And when they land on the store,
they will see
the relevant GPS tracking
content on their product page,
making it a smoother
user experience.
To make it more valuable
for your own marketing efforts,
each page gets its own unique
URL that can be used
in your corresponding
marketing materials.
And you have the flexibility
to customize your page
for specific localizations.
To recap the benefits
of this feature,
you're able to customize
your product page
with content that is more
relevant to specific audiences.
This can lead
to increased store conversion
and improved efficiency
in your marketing campaigns.
With the unique URL,
you will be able to access
analytics for each custom page
to help you understand
how effective each page is
at driving conversions.
There's a new submission flow
designed for this feature,
which allows you to submit
the custom product page metadata
independent of the app binary
in the App Store Connect.
Now I'll pass it over
to Michelle
to walk you through the feature
setup in App Store Connect.
Michelle: Thanks, Savannah.
Let's walk through how to set up
custom product pages
in App Store Connect.
We'll start by navigating
to our app record
in App Store Connect.
Click on Custom Product Pages
on the left navigation,
under the Features subsection.
And then click on the Create
Custom Product Page button.
Here, you'll start by providing
a reference name for your page.
This is how
you'll identify the page
in App Store Connect
going forward.
We'll call this page
"Livestream."
Then you'll want
to click on the field below
to choose a product page
to start with.
You can choose to start
your custom product page off
as a completely blank page,
or you can choose to copy
from your existing
app version product pages
or any other
custom product pages.
In this example, we'll start
with the version 3.1 page,
which is currently live
in the App Store.
Then click Create.
This will create your draft
of the custom product page,
which will start off with
the same screenshots,
preview videos,
and promotional text
as the version you chose
to start off with.
In this case,
the assets and metadata
are from version 3.1.
Please note that you can also
see the unique URL
assigned to this page.
In this example,
we'll add a new preview video
to show the live streaming
feature for this app.
And then we'll click
Add for Review.
Here, you'll see a submission
confirmation screen,
showing the app version
that will be used for review
and the items
that will be reviewed.
You could choose to add
other items to this submission,
but for this example,
we'll click to submit
just this custom product page.
And with that, your test
will be submitted to App Review.
Going back to the
Custom Product Pages screen,
you'd see your new
custom product page
in the In Review state.
Once approved by App Review,
the page will automatically move
to the Approved state,
at which point
the page will be viewable.
You can click on View Analytics
to view metrics.
You will be taken
to App Analytics,
which will let you view metrics
about your product page
including product page views,
total downloads,
and conversion rate;
as well as proceeds metrics
like average proceeds
per paying user;
as well as average retention,
sessions,
and total downloads by territory
and source type.
If you want to look at your
metrics across product pages,
you can look at the Metrics tab
to view your data
across all of your product pages
on the App Store.
This information can be further
filtered by territory,
device, source type,
and more.
And you'll also be able to
export data from the dashboard
so you can analyze it
in your own systems.
Finally, the App Store Connect
API will be valuable
if you want to integrate
custom product pages
with your own systems.
The API will allow you
to automate the submission
and management
of custom product pages
outside of the App Store Connect
website.
Now I'll hand back over
to Savannah
to walk through
the feature strategies.
Savannah: Thanks, Michelle.
Now that we've learned
what this feature is
and how to set it up,
let's talk about
how you can make the most
out of this feature.
As a reminder,
here's the current user journey
for the referral audience.
Now with the ability
to customize your product page,
you can create a seamless
customer experience
by aligning your store assets
with the acquisition marketing
assets for a given audience.
Next we'll walk you through
some use cases with examples
to show how to leverage
this feature.
You may have several
marketing channels you use
to acquire referral audience,
and you can design
custom pages by channel
to reflect the audience
characteristics
tailored to that channel.
Often cases, the most
effective acquisition assets
may look very different
from each other.
You may want to design,
for example,
two sets
of custom product pages:
one set to align with what works
best on your social channels,
while the other more tailored
to the creative featured
in your email campaigns.
If you only have
one major channel
or the top assets
remain consistent
across your different channels,
you can design
the custom product pages
to reflect different
asset themes
or highlight seasonal assets
to make them more relevant
to your marketing materials.
You can also use
custom product pages
to create versions
of your product page
that highlight different content
or features.
If you still remember
the Mountain Climber app example
from the feature overview,
both live streaming
and GPS tracking
would be good use cases to
leverage custom product pages.
Based on the performance
of each,
you can better understand
which feature
might appeal more
to your intended audience.
If you already have
a good understanding
of your user base,
you may look at user interests
or user status
and pair this with each relevant
custom product page.
Let's see the details
with some concrete examples.
If you are designing your custom
product pages by asset --
for example, for your puzzle
game with characters --
you may have acquisition assets
that highlight
special in-game characters,
and the assets that highlight
the core puzzle gameplay.
You might design
two custom pages --
one highlighting
specific characters
and another highlighting
a puzzle gameplay --
and you can align the respective
marketing creative and messaging
for each focus area.
This provides
a smoother experience
for users who see both.
By aligning the assets from
acquisition to the product page,
you can potentially mitigate
one drop-off point
in the user journey and improve
conversion on-store.
If you are designing
custom product pages by audience
for your fitness app,
as another example,
assume your fitness app
has two main audiences:
cyclists and runners.
You'd want to show them
relevant acquisition assets
in your marketing campaigns
and create two custom pages
to appeal to each
of these two groups.
One highlighting cycling
in your app videos and
screenshots, for example,
and another showcasing running
in your custom page.
In this case, you can
align your audience
and acquisition creatives
with your custom product page
metadata,
which can improve the efficiency
of your marketing campaigns.
Please also note that there are
different ways to go about
planning your
custom product pages,
and these strategies
can be used on their own
or combined with one another.
After deciding
on your use case,
here are some considerations
to help you
further flesh out your strategy.
You can choose on-store
which metadata to customize,
and for which specific
localizations.
Among screenshots,
preview videos,
and promotional text,
you can customize
only one
out of the three metadata,
or all three elements
at the same time.
For preview videos
and promotional text,
you can also choose
to not use them as an option.
In this case,
assume you'd customize
both your preview video
and screenshots.
You also have the flexibility
to customize the metadata
for specific localizations.
Assume you'd start with
the English-speaking audience.
Apart from
the product page strategy,
referral strategy off-store
also needs to be considered
to have a cohesive
user experience
and may help drive
better results.
You can choose
which channels to include,
which audience to pair
with your custom pages,
and which assets
to show them.
For the fitness app,
for example,
assume Channel A
is the best channel for you
and runners and cyclists
are the two main groups
of your referral audiences,
paired with corresponding
ads for each group.
Putting the considerations
into a sample plan,
you will have two custom pages
plus the default page.
Custom page one has preview
video and screenshots
tailored to the runner audience,
paired with the running ads.
Custom page two
has a different set of video
and screenshots for cyclists,
paired with the cycling ads.
Every other element
remains the same.
Both of the custom pages
would be compared
to the default product page.
Once you have the custom pages
set up and approved,
the unique URL
specific to each page
is a great way
to market your pages
to the appropriate audiences.
The URL adds
an additional parameter --
product page ID --
at the end of the default link.
Only when the product page
is approved in App Store Connect
can users see
the customized page.
If you decide to disable
your custom pages later
or for users who are
on the older OS version than 15,
the users
who are served this link
will fall back
to the default page.
Advertising networks can also
use custom product pages
in StoreKit-rendered
advertisements.
They will replace
the default page identifier
with the product page ID
in their setup.
More technical information
can be found
on developer.apple.com
website.
After the custom product pages
goes live,
you can export the data
from App Analytics
and customize the reporting
to your needs.
In this case,
the runner custom page
saw a higher conversion rate
than the default page,
meaning the custom video
and screenshots
are performing better at
converting your runner audience.
It's also a good idea to
validate that the D1 retention
continues to be
similarly strong,
showcasing the runner audience
remains engaged in your app.
Cyclists custom page,
on the other hand,
is not effective,
as the conversion rate
is lower than the default page.
You may want to revisit
the audience/asset combination
to try a different set.
Hope you've had
a good understanding
of this feature by now.
Before you start, here are
some things to watch out for.
First, with the ability
to customize up to 35 pages,
you'll want to prioritize
your most distinctive content
and assets first.
This should help you make the
most of your internal resources
and drive the scale needed
for the page.
Please be mindful when
comparing custom product pages.
Remember that the audience
that sees each page
could differ across pages,
which may lead to differences
in performance.
If you want to do
an apples-to-apples comparison
of two product pages,
consider using the product page
optimization feature.
Even though
the metadata submission
is independent of the binary,
any new metadata
still needs to be reviewed
and approved by App Review,
so the same guideline
around metadata applies here.
Please check
App Review Guideline section 2.3
for more details.
Lastly, when analyzing results,
focus on conversion rate
but also monitor post-install
metrics like retention
to ensure
you're continuing to acquire
a relevant and engaged audience.
Earlier this year,
we announced
both custom product pages
and product page optimization.
While there are similarities,
let's look at the key
differences side by side
in order to help you understand
when you might use each.
As discussed,
custom product pages
are intended to highlight
specific content and features.
Product page optimization
is aimed at improving
your overall
product page conversion
in a controlled environment.
The intended audience
for custom product pages
is referral traffic that
you send to each custom page;
while with product page
optimization,
anyone who sees your page
on the App Store
across Search, Browse, and more
are eligible to see
a treatment version
of your default product page.
In cases where you have
both features live,
referral audiences
who are directed
to a custom product page
will land on that page,
and not part of the
product page optimization test.
Custom product pages
don't have a limited timeframe,
which makes them great
for ongoing campaigns,
whereas product page
optimization tests
last for up to 90 days.
In terms of the metadata,
the assets involved
are slightly different.
Custom product pages allow you
to customize screenshots,
preview videos,
and promotional text.
Product page optimization
allows you to test
different app icons,
screenshots, and preview videos.
Lastly, the metrics available
for custom product pages
include conversion rate,
retention,
and proceeds for each page;
while product page optimization
focuses on conversion rate
with improvement
and confidence level.
Finally, our Developer website
has helpful information
about this feature
including examples,
technical implementation,
FAQs, and more.
Thank you for watching.
We can't wait to see
how you use this feature
to continually bring
the most relevant experiences
to your audience.